---
title: Parallelizing Transposed Convolution
date: 2022-01-18 05:28:15 +0900
---
I have attended "Scalable High Performance Computing" in Fall 2021. The class had gone through interesting topics about recent CPUs and GPUs, and the term project was especially interesting: we were required to parallelize transposed convolution, which was used in a generator of [DCGAN architecture](https://paperswithcode.com/method/dcgan).

I have implemented few techniques to parallelize transposed convolution. First, I have reduced unnecessary divergence(if-branches) to make the code friendly with lock-step architecture of GPUs; since all streaming cores in a warp fetch instructions both  from true and false blocks, including much if-branches becomes overhead to the program. 

Second, I tried to express transposed convolution as (huge)matrix multiplication. The motivation of this was that matrix multiplication is highly parallelizable. There are extremely fast matrix multiplication algorithms, thus I would benefit from those if I could regard transposed convolution as matrix multiplication. Designing and implementing this notion was very painful: building and reshaping matrix in C was confusing, and debugging CUDA codes without using `printf`(which I thought I cannot use in GPUs) was largely time-consuming. Especially, I was fooled by arcane behaviors of C language macro: it made me waste a day debugging my code.  

Going through these efforts, I could largely shorten the process of transposed convolution. The initial sequential CPU implementation of the method was excruciatingly long: it took longer than 1 minute to generate single artificial face portrait. So in theory, it would have taken longer than 16 hours to generate 1000 faces. However, implementing the generator in CUDA GPUs had largely shortened the process: I ended up the project with generating 1000 faces under 0.2 seconds. With 5000 times boost in the process, I was elated about how far computing technology would enhance human lives. It will take humankind to the level we were never able to reach without aid of computers!

You can check out my term project report(which unfortunately is only written in Korean): [Term project report(in Korean)](/assets/shpc_report_kr.pdf), [Term project report(in English)](/assets/shpc_report_en.pdf)